The COBRA Toolbox
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

|warning| This section is tailored to users who feel comfortable using
the terminal (or shell). It is recommended for other users
to follow :ref:`these instructions <contribute>`.

|warning| A Github account is required and `git` must be installed. You also
must already have forked the `opencobra/cobratoolbox
<https://www.github.com/opencobra/cobratoolbox>`__ repository by clicking on
the fork button on the main `opencobra/cobratoolbox
<https://www.github.com/opencobra/cobratoolbox>`__ repository page.

Development scheme
------------------

The repository of the COBRA Toolbox is version controlled with the open-source
standard ``git`` on the public code development site `github.com
<https://github.com>`__. Any incremental change to the code is wrapped in a
commit, tagged with a specific tag (called SHA1), a commit message, and author
information, such as the email address and the user name. Contributions to the
COBRA Toolbox are consequently commits that are made on branches.

The development scheme adopted in the repository of the COBRA Toolbox has two
branches: a `master` and a `develop` branch. The stable branch is the `master`
branch, while it is the `develop` branch that includes all new changes to code and to
which new contributions are merged. Contributions are submitted for review and
testing through pull requests, the `git` standard. The `develop` branch is
regularly merged into the `master` branch once testing is concluded.

The development scheme has been adopted for obvious reasons: the COBRA Toolbox
is heavily used on a daily basis, while the development community is active.
The key advantage of this setup is that developers can work on the next stable
release, while users can enjoy a stable version. Developers and users are
consequently working on the same code base without interfering. Understanding
the concept of branches is key to submitting hassle-free pull requests and
starting to contribute using `git`.

Clone the fork and update the submodules
----------------------------------------

|warning| Please note the following:

 - The following commands should only be run from the terminal (or the shell).
 - An SSH key must be set in your Github account settings.

 In order to get started, clone the forked repository:

.. code:: console

    $ git clone git@github.com:<username>/cobratoolbox.git fork-cobratoolbox

This will create a folder called fork-cobratoolbox. Make sure to replace
`<username>` with your Github username. Any of the following commands are meant
to be run from within the folder of the fork called `fork-cobratoolbox`.

.. code:: console

    $ cd fork-cobratoolbox

In order to complete the cloned repository with external code, it is
recommended to clone all submodules:

.. code:: console

    $ git submodule update --init

Configure the remotes
---------------------

Note that your fork is a copy of the `opencobra/cobratoolbox
<https://www.github.com/opencobra/cobratoolbox>`__ repository and is not
automatically updated. As such, you have to configure the address of the
`opencobra/cobratoolbox <https://www.github.com/opencobra/cobratoolbox>`__
repository:

.. code:: console

    $ git remote add upstream git@github.com:opencobra/cobratoolbox.git

Now, there are two addresses (also called remotes) configured: `origin` and
`upstream`. You can verify this by typing:

.. code:: console

   $ git remote -v

In order to update your fork, run the following commands:

.. code:: console

   $ git fetch upstream

First, update the `master` branch:

.. code:: console

   $ git checkout master # checkout the <master> branch locally
   $ git merge upstream/master # merge the changes from the upstream repository
   $ git push origin master # push the changes to the <master> branch of the fork

Then, update the `develop` branch:

.. code:: console

    $ git checkout develop # checkout the <develop> branch
    $ git merge upstream/develop # merge the changes on the <develop> branch from the upstream repository
    $ git push origin develop # push the changes to the <develop> branch of the fork

|warning| Should the step fail to checkout the develop branch, you should
create the develop branch first based on the `develop` branch of the upstream
repository:

.. code:: console

    $ git checkout -b develop upstream/develop

Then, you can proceed normally.

Create a contribution and submit a pull request
-----------------------------------------------

Now, as the fork is up-to-date with the upstream repository, start a new
contribution. A new contribution must be made on a new branch, that originates
from the `develop` branch. Create the new branch:

.. code:: console

    $ git checkout -b <myBranch> develop

Now, you can make changes in the folder `fork-cobratoolbox`. Once you are done
making changes, you can contribute the files. An important command that lists
all changes is to retrieve the repository status:

.. code:: console

    $ git status

A list is displayed with new, modified, and deleted files. You can add the changes (even deletions) by
adding the file:

.. code:: console

    $ git add <fileName>.<fileExtension>

|warning| Contrary to what is sometimes provided as a shortcut, it is not
advised to add all files all at once using as this command will add all files,
even hidden files and binaries.

.. code:: console

    $ git add . # bad practice

Then, commit the changes by setting a commit message <yourMessage>:

.. code:: console

    $ git commit -m "<myMessage>"

Finally, push your commit to Github:

.. code:: console

    $ git push origin <myBranch>

You should then see your commit online, and if ready, you can open a
pull request. You can select your branch in the dropdown menu and list all
commits by clicking on `commits`.

Continue working on your branch after a while (rebase)
------------------------------------------------------

If there have been major changes or if you want to continue working on a branch
after a while, it is recommended to do a rebase. In simple terms, rebasing your
branch shifts your commits to the top of the branch and includes all changes
from the upstream repository. Before doing so, make sure that you do not have
any uncommitted or local changes (git status).

.. code:: console

    $ git checkout develop
    $ git fetch upstream
    $ git merge upstream/develop
    $ git submodule update
    $ git checkout <myBranch>
    $ git rebase develop

If you do not have any conflicts, you should see messages showing that your
changes have been applied.  If however there are conflicts, it is advised to
use a merge tool such as `kdiff3`. In order to install a merge tool or abort
the rebase process, type:

.. code:: console

    $ git rebase --abort

In order to have the changes on `<myBranch>` reflected in the online
repository, push the changes with force. Pushing with force is required as the
history of the branch has been rewritten during rebase.

.. code:: console

    $ git push <myBranch> --force

Selectively use a commit on your branch (cherry-pick)
-----------------------------------------------------

Imagine having two branches called `<myBranch-1>` and `<myBranch-2>`. On branch
`<myBranch-1>` is a commit with a SHA1 that you need on `<myBranch-2>`. You can
cherry-pick the commit from `<myBranch-1>` to `<myBranch-2>` by typing:

.. code:: console

    $ git checkout myBranch-2
    $ git cherry-pick SHA1

If there are no conflicts, the displayed message should contain the commit
message and author information. In order to have the commit listed online,
conclude the cherry-pick by pushing the commit to the remote repository:

.. code:: console

    $ git push myBranch-2

